What I wanna do is I wanna
show what happens if we like,
what if I want to change this.
So what if I decide that I
want my header to be blue,
if I wanna do that,
how do I even get to the code?
If I had installed this as a package,
instead of installing it as a,
having it in a monitor repo like this,
I don't have access to this source code.
So am I just out of luck?
Do I need to fork this theme and
make my own?
Fortunately Gatsby thought through this,
Gatsby themes were designed by
Christmas Guardian, Johnno Tender and
a couple other really, really smart folks.
And they were kinda thinking like,
okay, what is the experience gonna be?
And the concept they came up with
is something they call shadowing.
Which is the idea that I can
selectively replace a file from
a theme by creating a specific
path in my project.
So let's do a little bit
of file shadowing here.
And what I'm gonna do is the reason we
set up that variables dot CSS is so
that we could only shadow
the color variables.
And that's why it was important to
make that just a tiny little file.
Cuz otherwise,
we'd have to copy out the whole thing.
So, what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna take
this variables file, I'm gonna copy it,
so, I'm just doing copy.
And then in my site source folder,
I'm gonna create a folder called
Gatsby theme, shared nav.
And then inside of that,
we're going to treat this as if it were
the source folder of
Gatsby theme shared nav.
So I want to get into styles.
And then inside of that,
we're gonna put in variables dot CSS.
So let me create a new folder,
called styles.
And then inside of that,
I'm gonna paste our variables dot CSS and
I'm gonna change our black to a dark blue.
That should be still be
enough contrast to work.
And I'm gonna stop and restart because
when you do shadowing you're changing
the file system, you need to basically
get Gatsby to get a fresh look at it for
that to work properly.
And so this is probably one of those,
it's not the most
straightforward thing the first
time you're looking at it.
Because basically what we just did
is we told Gatsby use this theme,
but look in this folder where I named
it specifically to match this theme and
replace variables.CSS into
the theme with this file.
And otherwise use it exactly the same.
So the cumulative effect of what we've
done is if we were to just edit the theme.
As far as the theme is concerned,
this file no longer exists.
It's now this one.
And that's how shadowing is designed.
It's a really powerful approach
that gives us the ability to
modify themes without having
to fully eject from them.
There's a concept that I really
like that I've written about in
the past called progressive
disclosure of complexity.
And what progressive
disclosure of complexity is,
is this kind of concept of teaching.
And so there's, like this is in UX and
Nielsen Norman group has written about it,
and I've written about it in the terms
of just kind of like teaching and
learning in general.
But the idea is that you
let somebody get into
something without having
to touch anything.
And then as they wanna get deeper into it,
they can only get the extra
complexity that they need.
It's not all or nothing.
I think if you ever use create react app
back in the day, the experience was you
could use create react app, until you
wanted to change literally anything.
And then you had to eject and
then you owned all of the code for
create react app, and it was separate
from the create react app core.
And so this was an idea of,
it was easy until you eject
it to all of the complexity.
You either had full automation or
fully manual.
And with progressive disclosure,
what you're getting is this concept of,
I want automatic until I need
to customize one thing and
then let me make that one thing manual.
So that's what we're doing here is we've
said I wanna use everything about this
theme, except I wanna modify this color.
So I shadow the variables, and then I
can replace the colors that I want and
if I wanted to do a full theme,
I could do that as well.
And now the site is
showing this dark blue.
So that's a really kind of lightweight,
look at how shadowing works.
Any of the other examples that we could
do would be a little heavier handed.
Just because there's not too much going
on in this theme, so I wanted to show
something that would illustrate the
concept without getting into the weeds.
And this is I think
a pretty good look at it.
So that's how file shadowing works.